# 2022.06.08 Minutes

Time 1500 PM (BST)

- Co-Chair – Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade
- Co-Chair - Dan Lewis-toakley - Thoughtworks
- Convener – Sean Mcilroy - Linux Foundation
  
## Roll call 
Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Sravanthi Ashok Kumar - MSFT<br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW<br>
Markus Seidl (NTT) <br>
Brian hopper - Avanade<br>
Bastian Pflitsch - Syngenio<br>
Nick Walker - Avenade<br>
Fergus Kidd - Avenade<br>
Szymon Duchniewicz - Avenade<br>
hema date - Nitie<br>
Tammy McClellan - MSFT<br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones (Avanade)<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
Juliana Witzke - TW<br>
Lu.L.Wang3 - Shell<br>
Cameron Casher - TW<br>

> Meeting recording - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1BDtithDca2SvcRsRbyVRzs6lWnmvwMOvQvqpZHflOs4/edit

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 

2022.06.08 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Tammy motions to approve - no objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes (decision)

[2022.05.25_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/opensource_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.05.25.Minutes.md)

> Tammy motions to the minutes - no objections - Minutes approved

[2022.05.11.Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/opensource_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.05.11.Minutes.md)

> Tammy motions to the minutes - no objections - Minutes approved

## Projects Update

> 1. Vanghan (MSFT) - [Carbon aware SDK](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/carbon-aware-sdk)

Szymon Duchniewicz - There's going to be an opened one beta version available by the last Friday of June. We've automatically generated clients for almost over 40 languages, so the plan. We'll have more updates in two weeks, based on the next meeting

> 2. Chris (GWF) - [SCI Open Data](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-data)

Brian Hopper - Oksana <oksana.branitska@microsoft.com> from Microsoft got in touch with me, and is interested in working with us on this project, and linking us into the work that they're doing in Azure, to, you know, to really start monitoring and have a carbon count, actually in the Azure Stack. So I think that has some real serious potential to to give us some of the data that we're really looking for there.

> 3. Navveen (Accenture) - [SCI Open Ontology](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wPIMHOGxvaDH743CT0upf2AVR9pXwl6v/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109368751668006670411&rtpof=true&sd=true)

Navveen - We have been evaluating tools on what how we want to describe the ontology, some work is going out there. More updates at the next meeting

CLJ - It's an interesting one, because I guess one of the things you could do use would be use the digital twin definition language. For a graph database itself to model that digital twins Definition Language is quite good, because you can define a model and the connections between them. I know we don't often talk about implementations on this working group, but the standards group does get into quite a lot of discussions. So if anyone want if anyone doesn't have have any ideas, please do feel free to, to pop that. To come with me and mention otherwise, I'll link out to that in the chat. Because that's a really good modelling language. And whilst it's Microsoft driven, it is open source.

> 4. Sarah (Goldman Sachs) - [Green_Software_principles](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Green_Software_principles)

Furgus - we'll be working on some guidance on how to actually put the principles into actions in an organization's and a little bit of focus on or a little bit of chat around what we can actually do around certifications to provide people certain certifications on the principles so that they can, you know, do a test or an exam based on the principles that will be released, and then they can be satisfied at a sort of a base level of knowledge. 

> 5. Fergus Kidd (Avanade) - [Carbon CI Pipeline Tooling](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Carbon_CI_Pipeline_Tooling)

Furgus - We're going to have a discussion this week around what content we want to put on that, and then start actually filling the GitHub with some actions and items for people to pick up and fill out once that once the current project group have kind of picked their preferred direction and finalise some of those items. We starting at quite a high level still would just like defining what it is we actually want to achieve, and then how we're actually going to get there.

- 6. Dan Lewis-Toakley (Thoughtworks) - [Awesome Green Software](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/awesome-green-software/tree/dev)

Dan - Since the last meeting, I merged the dev branch into Main, so we now have a v1.0 live, which is a much better version with a lot a lot more content

## Review submitted discussions & issues

[Submitted discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/discussions)

CLJ Reviews - (New stale process for PRs and issues)[https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/opensource_wg/issues/34]

WG agree to:

- 30 days for issues and discussions being stale - no comments or reactions.
- PRs will be merged into dev after 7 days, if no objections are raised.
- GH action to notify people. Chair/project lead will merge.
- Chairs and convener to have discretion to move discussions to issues/vice versa. Broadly, discussions will become issues when consensus is reached.

## WG Meeting Schedule

> Bi weekly - Next meeting 22nd June

Agree

## Any Other Business

> Update [GSF Global summit](https://greensoftware.foundation/)

Sean & Tammy update the WG with the GSF Global Summit details

## Adjournment

Tammy motions to adjourn - no objections - Meeting closed
