# 2022.03.02 Agenda
Time 1700 PM (BST)

- Chair – [Pierre Lagarde](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pierlag/) (Microsoft) 
- Chair - [Dan Lewis-toakley ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/danlewistoakley/) (Thoughtworks)
- Convener – [Sean Mcilroy](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sean-mcilroy-bb3b5548/) (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call 

Sean Mcilroy - LF<br>
Sarah Hsu - GS<br>
Navveen Balani - Aveneade<br>
Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW<br>
Akshit Batra - TW<br>
Amira El Fekih - Avenade<br>
Brian Hopper - Avenade<br>
Cameron Casher - TW<br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Accenture<br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT<br>
Lopez Dominguez - Globant<br>
Furgus Kidd - Accenture<br>
Lu Wang - Shell<br>
Marc-Andre Groulx - MSFT<br>
Marchial Hernandez - Globant<br>
Mariana Emsing - Syngenio<br>
Markus Seidl - NttData<br>
Daniel Schien - BU<br>

## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2022.03.02 Agenda

> Sean reviews the agenda - Navveen motions to approve the agenda - No objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes (decision)
[2022.02.16_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.02.16_Minutes.md)

> Asim motions to approve the minutes - No objections - previous minutes approved

## WG Name & Scope to be updated (Discussion & Decision)

WG Co-Chairs / Asim to lead

- The Innovation Working Group will change to the Open Source Working Group

**WG Scope change** 

- Old Scope:
Direct open-source, open-data and academic research in areas that advance the field of Green Software.
Sponsor key open-source and open-data projects to build confidence they will be supported and maintained for the long-term.

- New Scope
Create open-source and open-data projects in areas that advance the field of Green Software.
Sponsor 3rd part key open-source and open-data projects to build confidence they will be supported and maintained for the long-term.

> Asim informs the WG that the name and scope change is to align itself with the the way the WG functions.

> WG discuss the name change and scope change and agree to review the scope further as a discussion over the next 14 days

> Action Item - Sean to create a discussion item for members to submit comments

## Projects Update

1. Vanghan (MSFT) - [Carbon aware SDK](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/carbon-aware-sdk)

> Vaughan unavailable offer an update. Asim informed the WG, that a PM has been brought onboard to provide support to the project lead (Vaughan) 

2. Chris (GWF) - [SCI Open Data](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-data)

Dan informed the members that project members will be meeting on Friday. Dan indicated that all members are welcome to join this meeting.

3. Navveen (Accenture) - [SCI Open Ontology](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wPIMHOGxvaDH743CT0upf2AVR9pXwl6v/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109368751668006670411&rtpof=true&sd=true)

Navveen provided an update on the SCI Open Ontology - 
One of the key first step in SCI is defining the software boundary and the same time, this is an interesting problem to solve where we can help enterprises define the software boundary of the SCI application in a unified way. 

Our design goals are to enable software practitioners to model the Software Boundary, with an aim to reduce the SCI score. 

The SCI score can be reduced by creating energy efficient applications, using less hardware for the same amount of work, or creating carbon aware applications.
 
The SCI Open Ontology project aims to provide a unified representation of SCI and its application. The main aim of this project is to help practitioners define the software boundary of the SCI application in a unified way.

- Software Code - A code is basically a piece of code created using some programming language

- Programming language – The programming language (C, Java, RUST. Net etc.) and the framework used (i.e., ReactJS, PyTorch, TensorFlow). The framework can also be a custom framework for any user defined extensions. 

- Software application – Consist of one or many software code
The software application can be packaged into containers or directly runs on some hardware/VM or run as a standalone application (like Office etc.) on some hardware (i.e., Laptop devices etc.)  

- Container – Packages one or many software applications

- Hardware – Hardware that runs the container or software application directly

Navveen indicated that he would welcome any support / helps with the project.

4. Sarah (Goldman Sachs) - [Green_Software_principles](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Green_Software_principles)

Sarah offers an overview of the current update, which include - Why do we say not to offsets?
The end of May is an object milestone deadline for this to be completed, which will coincide with the Global Summit 

Asim continued the discussing by reviewing PR [Pattern, Rightsizing oversized VMs](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Green_Software_principles/pull/24)
and proposed for the WG to review the submitted PR.

> The WG agreed to submit this PR into the next meeting agenda for discussion and agreement.

> Contact sarah via - sarah.Hsu@gs.com

Asim continued the discussing by reviewing PR [Pattern, Rightsizing oversized VMs](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Green_Software_principles/pull/24)

## Project proposal discussion

> Chris Lloyd-Jones/ Furgus Kidd (Avanade)

[Carbon Pipeline Tooling](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oacfO1dxcBNRhPJegk0aHPOgF3KNvuDy/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109189016904402965838&rtpof=true&sd=true)

[Carbon Tooling for CICD - Proposal](https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?tab=rm#search/Carbon+Tooling+for+CICD/FMfcgzGmvLNNWfbZvrQMbfpPfXVWQWpr)

> Furgus started the discussion by presenting the carbon tooling proposal doc. This tooling covers the pipeline from a git commit, up to deployment, in a typical continuous integration/continuous deployment process. This project fills gaps in the toolchain – and could support integration with existing tooling, like static code analysis tools for Green Software, and other future projects.

Dan suggested It would be great for the Scope to be cloud provider agnostic. 
Daniel asked where do you get the energy data from. Furgus indicated that it'll be the same place that the SCI will be looking (WhatTime) but CLJ has the specific details.

> It was agreed to start a 14 day review of this project for members to submit comments.

> Action Item - Sean to create an Issue and notify the members of the 14 day review

## Review submitted discussions

[Submitted discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/discussions)

## PR Review - Asim
Instead of a hackathon this week, we will discuss and review a PR from Asim for the Green Software Principles project - similar to how the Standard WG operate

## WG Meeting Schedule

Bi weekly - Next meeting 16th January

> Agreed

## WG Election notifiction

Sean informs the members of the following

- The Green Software Foundation will be accepting Chair nominations for the Innovation Working Group Chairs from the 07th March.
- Sponsor and General Members are permitted to be candidates for chair positions.

## Any Other Business

> Nothing added

## Adjournment

Navveen motions to adjourn the meeting - No objectsions - Meeting adjourned
