# 2022.03.16 Minutes

Time 1700 PM (BST)

- Chair – [Pierre Lagarde](https://www.linkedin.com/in/pierlag/) (Microsoft) 
- Chair - [Dan Lewis-toakley ](https://www.linkedin.com/in/danlewistoakley/) (Thoughtworks)
- Convener – [Sean Mcilroy](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sean-mcilroy-bb3b5548/) (Linux Foundation)
  
## Roll call 

Dan Lewis-Toakley - TW <br>
Sarah Hsu - GS<br>
Sxymon Duchniewicz - Avanade<br>
Asim Hussain - MSFT<br>
Chris Lloyd-Jones - Avanade<br>
Yassine El Ghali - MSFT<br>
Pierre Lagarde - MSFT<br>
Akshit Batra - TW<br>
Furgus Kidd - Avanade<br>
Navveen Balani - Accenture<br>
  
## Antitrust Policy
Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct 
all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. 
It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities 
that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are 
described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. 
If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, 
feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.
  
## Agenda Approval (decision) 
2022.03.16 Agenda

> Dan review the agenda - Navveen motions to approve the agenda - any objections to its approval - No objections - Agenda approved
  
## Approval of previous meeting minutes (decision)
[2022.02.16_Minutes](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/blob/main/Agenda_Minutes/2022.03.02_Minutes.md)

> Navveen motions to approve the previous meeting minutes - Any objections to the previous meeting minutes - No objections - Minutes approved

## Project proposal discussion

> Chris Lloyd-Jones/ Furgus Kidd (Avanade)

[Carbon Pipeline Tooling](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1oacfO1dxcBNRhPJegk0aHPOgF3KNvuDy/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109189016904402965838&rtpof=true&sd=true)

[Carbon Tooling for CICD - Proposal](https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?tab=rm#search/Carbon+Tooling+for+CICD/FMfcgzGmvLNNWfbZvrQMbfpPfXVWQWpr)

- Furgus reviews the submitted comments
- WG review and resolve submitted comments

> Dan - All the submitted have been resolved. 
> Motions: Are there any objections for approving this project? - no objections - **The project is approved.**

AI: Sean to set up the project

## Projects Update

- Vanghan (MSFT) - [Carbon aware SDK](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/carbon-aware-sdk)

> Yassine El Ghali

> When you want use case we'll be using it in the CI CD pipeline, to say, for example, for machine learning training, before deploying to some region, we use the SDK CLI, in this case, as a GitHub action or as a Docker image. It will tell me, for example, that West Europe is the region with the lowest emission calibration carbon, so I will use this information in my pipeline to deploy my machine learning training in this region. The other use case would be using the SDK as an API. So here, it would be more development that we can imagine then some application in order to do some amounts colouring or whatever. If we call the API to get the info, again about the reason we list emission carbon. And the third use case would be using the library as dotnet package, or Python package or whatever. But the main use cases we see is using as an CLI. So for pipeline, or as an API, and we thought about last artefacts. This is of course open conversation, is the last link is to use the Docker service, which is simply generating the code of this repo as a clean website. It's the last link on the SDK look. If you see built and published with GitHub, ah, yes. This Yeah, if you can go on this lake. Thank you. So it's simple. Docker size documents engineers generated from the SDK. And the idea is to have something clean, to facilitate usage of the tool. And here, of course, we can have maybe some doc for cross projects with the new project that has been approved or others. In terms of development scissors, with Vaughn, he is like the main lead on this development parts. And currently, we're using still the dev branch to integrate those changes a little bit.

- Chris (GWF) - [SCI Open Data](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/sci-data)

> Dan - The main update is that we are going to be the data that we put together are going to be driven that we pull together and publish, it's going to be driven by requests from other initiatives and projects for that data. So over on the standards working group, they're trying to develop a number of case studies with us the SCI, and those case studies are going to require data, and so we're going to start getting requests for different types of data sets and so we're basically going to either interactively build up the open that those open data sets based on the requests that are coming in, so the SDK project might have requests for data, from the project we just approved. Chris Adams is the point person from the Green web foundation, so if you have any requests for different data sets he's the person to go to

- Navveen (Accenture) - [SCI Open Ontology](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1wPIMHOGxvaDH743CT0upf2AVR9pXwl6v/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109368751668006670411&rtpof=true&sd=true)

> Two weeks ago we presented on the high level design for CI open ontology library, where we discuss about all the base constructs that will be used for building the open ontology. Navveen indicated that he's refining that and taking it further. Additionally there was one more request on creating the use case,  so we are working on that. Last week, we also got this article published in green Software Foundation. Navveen shared the link requests for everyone to go through it, and indicated he was still looking for volunteers to join this project.

- Sarah (Goldman Sachs) - [Green_Software_principles](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/Green_Software_principles)

> We are slowly working towards our milestones to hopefully finish updating the version two by end of Q2 and we'll be looking into other milestones. Currently, we're working on the eight different sections that was mentioned last week.

## Review submitted discussions

[Submitted discussions](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/discussions)

https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/innovation_wg/discussions/22

## PR Review - Asim

Review PR's submitted by Asim against the Green Software Principles project

 - [Submitted PRs](https://github.com/Green-Software-Foundation/green-software-principles/pulls)

## WG Meeting Schedule

Bi weekly - Next meeting 30 March

## Any Other Business

> Dan motions to move the the meeting forward by an hour - No objections - Meeting moved to 0100pm Eastern

## Adjournment

Navveen motions to adjourn - No objections - Meeting closed
